Docs/ce 477 dataplances on ecs (#19010)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/ecs/deploy/manual.mdx

| `command` | Set to `["control-plane"]` so that the container runs the `control-plane` command. | list |
| `environment` | Specifies the `CONSUL_ECS_CONFIG_JSON`` environment variable, which configures the container to connect to the Consul servers. Refer to [Control-plane to Consul servers configuration](#control-plane-to-Consul-servers-configuration) for details. | list |

### Control-plane shared volume configuration

The `mountPoints` configuration defines a volume and path where the control-plane container stores the Envoy bootstrap configuration file required to start Envoy. You must specify the following keys and values:

```json
"mountPoints": [
  {
    "readOnly": false,
    "containerPath": "/consul",
    "sourceVolume": "consul_data"
  },
  {
    "readOnly": true,
    "containerPath": "/bin/consul-inject",
    "sourceVolume": "consul_binary"
  }
],
```

### Control-plane to Consul servers configuration

Provide Consul server connection settings to the mesh task module so that the module can configure the control-plane and ECS controller containers to connect to the servers. 

> 1. In your `variables.tf` file, define variables for the host URL and TLS settings for gRPC and HTTP traffic. Refer to the [mesh task module reference](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws/latest/submodules/gateway-task?tab=inputs) for information about the variables you can define. In the following example, the Consul server address is defined in the `consul_server_hosts` variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your `variables.tf` file, define variables for the host URL and TLS settings for gRPC and HTTP traffic. Refer to the [mesh task module reference](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/hashicorp/consul-ecs/aws/latest/submodules/mesh-task?tab=inputs) for information about the variables you can define. In the following example, the Consul server address is defined in the `consul_server_hosts` variable:
```

Looks like the existing link referred to the gateway task submodule

Register the task definition with your ECS cluster using the AWS Console, AWS CLI, or another method supported by AWS. You must also create an ECS Service to start tasks using the task definition. Refer to the following ECS documentation for information on how to register the task definition:

- [Creating a task definition using the classic console](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/create-task-definition-classic.html)
- [Register task definition CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/ecs/register-task-definition.html)

## Deploy the controller container

The controller container runs in a separate ECS task and is responsible for Consul security features. The controller uses the AWS IAM auth method to enable ECS tasks to automatically obtain Consul ACL tokens when the task starts up. Refer to [Consul security components](/consul/docs/ecs/architecture#consul-security-components) for additional information.

Verify that you have completed the prerequisites described in [Secure configuration requirements](#secure-configuration-requirements) and configure the following components to enable Consul security features.

### Create an ACL policy

> On the Consul server, create a policy that grants `acl:write` and `operator:write` access for the controller. The policy allows Consul to generate a token linked to the policy. Refer to [Create a service token](/consul/docs/security/acl/tokens/create/create-a-service-token) for instructions.

Reviewer: This should also include the `node:write` policy because the controller container registers a synthetic node.

> On the Consul server, create a policy that grants `acl:write` and `operator:write` access for the controller. The policy allows Consul to generate a token linked to the policy. Refer to [Create a service token](/consul/docs/security/acl/tokens/create/create-a-service-token) for instructions.

Author: ```suggestion
On the Consul server, create a policy that grants the following access for the controller:

- `acl:write` 
- `operator:write` 
- `node:write` 

The policy allows Consul to generate a token linked to the policy. Refer to [Create a service token](/consul/docs/security/acl/tokens/create/create-a-service-token) for instructions.
```
